to see that playful side in action
Isabelle and I are joining the infants
for their daily bout of rough-and-tumble
play is a vital building block of bonobo
relationships it's so important that
they continue to play as adults and
that's unusual in the animal kingdom
but bonobos do something even more
surprising
to demonstrate that we found ourselves a
little volunteer and in the name of
science we're going to take a anticip
discovered that laughter is not unique
to humans just like us for bonobos
laughter is a form of communication and
what laughter is doing it's a signal
that tells other individuals I want to
continue playing with you I want to
continue interacting with you in humans
for example conversations that have
laughter lasts longer if we share a bout
of laughter we feel bonded we still
relax it really is a booster to that
internal motivation like yeah this is
wonderful let's keep doing it
play is a safe way to test the
boundaries of a relationship and that
helps to build an incredibly tolerant
society
Oh
the dog
in the wild play makes all the
difference
while chimps can be extremely aggressive
towards each other
bonobos generally seem to get along
you